README.md, before:

# JavaScript fetch() Lab

## Overview

In this lab, you'll use `fetch()` to get remote data from and write data to GitHub.

## Introduction

We're going to use `fetch` to get data from GitHub, fork a repository, and post issues to our forked repository.

Using `fetch` to get remote data after using `XMLHttpRequest` is a little like riding in a convertible with the top down after spending your whole life walking like a sucker.

![mean girls](http://i.giphy.com/4CP58gxwbBy2Q.gif)

Getting data from the GitHub API with `fetch` is super simple. If we're just trying to `GET` some JSON, we can do this:

```js
fetch('https://api.github.com/repos/jquery/jquery/commits')
  .then(resp => resp.json())
  .then(json => console.log(json));
```

Keeping in mind that we can use the `json` method of the `Body` mixin to render our response as JSON, and that each `then` passes its return value to the next `then` as an argument.

### Authentication Token

https://developer.github.com/v3/oauth/#3-use-the-access-token-to-access-the-api

GitHub's API uses [OAuth2](https://developer.github.com/v3/oauth/) for authorization. Setting up the full OAuth2 authorization code grant workflow is beyond the scope of this lab, but it is described well in the GitHub [docs](https://developer.github.com/v3/oauth/), and I highly recommend you give it a read.

Fortunately, GitHub also allows you to generate your own personal authorization token that we can use to give us authorized access to the API.

If you already have a personal token that you've been using to make API requests, you can keep using that one. Otherwise, you'll need to generate a new one.

To start, go to [https://github.com/settings/tokens](https://github.com/settings/tokens) and click "Generate new token." Name it something like "Learn.co", and check `repo` scope. Once you generate the token, make sure to copy and paste it somewhere, because once you leave that page, you won't be able to see it again.

Using the token to [access the API](https://developer.github.com/v3/oauth/#3-use-the-access-token-to-access-the-api) is a simple matter of creating an `Authorization` header with our request.

We need to provide our authorization token in order to list our own repositories with this API, so let's add our `Authorization` header (don't forget to assign your token to `const token`).

```js
const token = 'YOUR_TOKEN_HERE';

fetch('https://api.github.com/user/repos', {
  headers: {
    Authorization: `token ${token}`
  }
}).then(res => res.json()).then(json => console.log(json));
```

We just pass the desired headers as part of a second `options` argument to `fetch` and we are in business. Easy as that!

### Getting Past GET

While `GET` operations are straightforward, when we're building out full applications, we often need to use other HTTP verbs, such as `POST`, to write data as well as read it. Luckily, it's very easy to `POST` with `fetch` as well.

Let's look at an example of posting a new comment to a commit with the GitHub API. Replace the commit with a commit from one of your repositories, and use your token if you want to try this out.

```js
const token = 'YOUR_TOKEN_HERE';
const postData = {
  body: 'Great stuff'
};

fetch('https://api.github.com/repos/:your_ghname/:your_repo/commits/:sha/comments', {
  method: 'POST',
  body: JSON.stringify(postData),
  headers: {
    Authorization: `token ${token}`
  }
}).then(res => console.log(res));
```

Here we created an object called `postData` that we will pass as a JSON string using `JSON.stringify` in the request `body`. We're also setting the method to `'POST'`, and finally using our `Authorization` header like we did before, since any write action is going to require authorization.

All of these additional settings go in that `options` argument, which is just an object that we can pass as the second argument to `fetch`.

Finally, we can examine the response in our `then` function just the same as we did with a `GET` request.

**Top-tip:** Make sure you read the API documentation carefully! They will often specify which fields are required and which are optional, as well as the format of the request body. GitHub expects JSON data in the body, but another API might want form data (which you can create with `new FormData()` or XML or something else. Always read the docs!

## Instructions

We're going to be making an app to allow us to fork a repo and create issues on that fork. The basic HTML and JavaScript are provided in `index.html` and `index.js`. Your job will be to follow the instructions and complete the code to make it work. Don't forget to run it in the browser to see it in action, and run the tests to make sure they pass!

You'll need to read the GitHub API documentation to see how each function works.

**Note:** Running it will require that you return your personal token in `getToken()`, however, the tests will **not** pass if you leave your token there, so before you commit and push, make sure you set `return ''` in the `getToken` function. NEVER give out your token or check it into GitHub!

1. Fork [this](https://github.com/learn-co-curriculum/javascript-fetch-lab) repository in the `forkRepo` function. Display the JSON result in the `results` div by calling `showForkedRepo`. [GitHub Forks API](https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/forks/)

2. In `showForkedRepo`, display the repo information in the browser by appending html with a link to the repository url to the DOM.

3. Navigate to your forked repository (using the link in your html!) and enable Issues by clicking on the `Settings` tab and checking `Issues`. They will probably be turned off by default, and the next step won't work so well if they are disabled!

4. Create a new issue for your forked repository with the `createIssue` function. Use the `title` and `body` values from the provided form. After the issue is created, fetch and display a list of all issues associated with your repository on the page. Append them to a div with an id of "issues".   [GitHub Issues API](https://developer.github.com/v3/issues/)

5. Load it up and watch it work!

![fetch()](http://missmonet.net/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/so-fetch-gretchen-xmas-gif.gif)

## Resources

- [`fetch()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API)
- [GitHub API](https://developer.github.com/v3/)

<p data-visibility='hidden'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/javascript-fetch-lab' title='JavaScript Fetch Lab'>Javascript Fetch Lab</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>

Commit message:

Update GitHub API links and add note about not raising issues on the canonical repo
Closes #95
Closes #96
Closes #100
Closes #101
Closes #102
Closes #103
Closes #104
Closes #105
Closes #106
Closes #107
Closes #108
Closes #109
Closes #110
Closes #111
Closes #112
Closes #113
Closes #114
Closes #115
Closes #116
Closes #117
Closes #118
Closes #119
Closes #120
Closes #121

README.md, after:

# JavaScript `fetch()` Lab

## Overview
In this lab, you'll use `fetch()` to get remote data from and write data to GitHub.

## Introduction
We're going to use `fetch` to get data from GitHub, fork a repository, and post issues to our forked repository.

Using `fetch` to get remote data after using `XMLHttpRequest` is a little like riding in a convertible with the top down after spending your whole life walking like a sucker.

![mean girls](http://i.giphy.com/4CP58gxwbBy2Q.gif)

Getting data from the GitHub API with `fetch` is super simple. If we're just trying to `GET` some JSON, we can do this:

```js
fetch('https://api.github.com/repos/jquery/jquery/commits')
  .then(resp => resp.json())
  .then(json => console.log(json));
```

Keeping in mind that we can use the `json` method of the `Body` mixin to render our response as JSON, and that each `then` passes its return value to the next `then` as an argument.

### Authentication Token
GitHub's [v3 API](https://developer.github.com/v3/) uses [OAuth2][GitHub OAuth] for authorization. Setting up the full OAuth2 authorization code grant workflow is beyond the scope of this lab, but it is described well in the GitHub [docs][GitHub OAuth], and I highly recommend you give it a read.

Fortunately, GitHub also allows you to generate your own personal authorization token that we can use to give us authorized access to the API.

If you already have a personal token that you've been using to make API requests, you can keep using that one. Otherwise, you'll need to generate a new one.

To start, go to [github.com/settings/tokens](https://github.com/settings/tokens) and click "Generate new token." Name it something like "Learn.co", and check `repo` scope. Once you generate the token, make sure to copy and paste it somewhere, because once you leave that page, you won't be able to see it again.

Using the token to [access the API](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-integrations/setting-up-and-registering-oauth-apps/about-authorization-options-for-oauth-apps/#3-use-the-access-token-to-access-the-api) is a simple matter of creating an `Authorization` header with our request.

We need to provide our authorization token in order to list our own repositories with this API, so let's add our `Authorization` header (don't forget to assign your token to `const token`).

```js
const token = 'YOUR_TOKEN_HERE';

fetch('https://api.github.com/user/repos', {
  headers: {
    Authorization: `token ${token}`
  }
}).then(res => res.json()).then(json => console.log(json));
```

We just pass the desired headers as part of a second `options` argument to `fetch` and we are in business. Easy as that!

### Getting Past `GET`
While `GET` operations are straightforward, when we're building out full applications, we often need to use other HTTP verbs, such as `POST`, to write data as well as read it. Luckily, it's very easy to `POST` with `fetch` as well.

Let's look at an example of posting a new comment to a commit with the GitHub API. Replace the commit with a commit from one of your repositories, and use your token if you want to try this out.

```js
const token = 'YOUR_TOKEN_HERE';
const postData = {
  body: 'Great stuff'
};

fetch('https://api.github.com/repos/:your_ghname/:your_repo/commits/:sha/comments', {
  method: 'POST',
  body: JSON.stringify(postData),
  headers: {
    Authorization: `token ${token}`
  }
}).then(res => console.log(res));
```

Here we created an object called `postData` that we will pass as a JSON string using `JSON.stringify` in the request `body`. We're also setting the method to `'POST'`, and finally using our `Authorization` header like we did before, since any write action is going to require authorization.

All of these additional settings go in that `options` argument, which is just an object that we can pass as the second argument to `fetch`.

Finally, we can examine the response in our `then` function just the same as we did with a `GET` request.

**Top-tip:** Make sure you read the API documentation carefully! They will often specify which fields are required and which are optional, as well as the format of the request body. GitHub expects JSON data in the body, but another API might want form data (which you can create with `new FormData()` or XML or something else. Always read the docs!

## Instructions
We're going to be making an app to allow us to fork a repo and create issues on that fork. The basic HTML and JavaScript are provided in `index.html` and `index.js`. Your job will be to follow the instructions and complete the code to make it work. Don't forget to run it in the browser to see it in action, and run the tests to make sure they pass!

You'll need to read the GitHub API documentation to see how each function works.

**Note:** Running it will require that you return your personal token in `getToken()`, however, the tests will **not** pass if you leave your token there, so before you commit and push, make sure you set `return ''` in the `getToken` function. NEVER give out your token or check it into GitHub!

1. Fork [this repository](https://github.com/learn-co-curriculum/javascript-fetch-lab) in the `forkRepo` function. Display the JSON result in the `results` div by calling `showForkedRepo`. Read more about forking in the [GitHub Forks API documentation](https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/forks/). You should only be raising issues on your forked copy of the repository — ***not on the canonical repo owned by learn-co-curriculum***.

2. In `showForkedRepo`, display the repo information in the browser by appending html with a link to the repository url to the DOM.

3. Navigate to your forked repository (using the link in your html!) and enable Issues by clicking on the `Settings` tab and checking `Issues`. They will probably be turned off by default, and the next step won't work so well if they are disabled!

4. Create a new issue for your forked repository with the `createIssue` function. Use the `title` and `body` values from the provided form. After the issue is created, fetch and display a list of all issues associated with your repository on the page. Append them to a div with an id of "issues". Read more about creating issues via API calls in the [GitHub Issues API documentation](https://developer.github.com/v3/issues/).

5. Load it up and watch it work!

![That's so fetch](http://missmonet.net/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/so-fetch-gretchen-xmas-gif.gif)

## Resources
- [`fetch()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API)
- [GitHub API](https://developer.github.com/v3/)

[GitHub OAuth]: https://developer.github.com/v3/oauth_authorizations/

<p data-visibility='hidden'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/javascript-fetch-lab' title='JavaScript Fetch Lab'>Javascript Fetch Lab</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>
